.Dd October 3, 2015
.Dt DROETKER 1
.Os
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh NAME
.Nm droetker
.Nd static site generator
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dfh
.Ao command Ac
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a static website generator written in
.Xr sh 1 .
It provides a basic templating system through
.Xr cpp 1 .
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d
Display additional information.
.It Fl f
Force stuff.
.It Fl h
Display a small help text, which might not help you at all as it refers you to
the
.Fl help
command.  You are better off by using that one.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh COMMANDS
The following commands are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ic help
Display usage information and a list of commands.
.It Ic new Ar site_name
Create a new website scaffold in
.Pa PWD/site_name .
.It Ic build
Build the site in
.Li OUTPUT_DIRECTORY .
If
.Li OUTPUT_DIRECTORY
is not set, the site is built in
.Pa PWD/_site .
.Pp
If
.Nm
can not find the configuration file
.Pa PWD/_config.sh ,
it does not attempt to build the site.
.Pp
The output directory will not be deleted if it already exists.
.It Ic serve
Serves your site locally.  This command requires Ruby to run.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh FRONT MATTER
.Nm
allows per-page configuration using the front matter.  The front matter
consists of key/value pairs, which look like this:
.Pp
.Dl ---
.Dl PAGE_LAYOUT=default.html
.Dl PAGE_PREPROCESSOR=redcarpet
.Dl ---
.Pp
Note the triple dashes at the begin and end of the key/value pairs.  These are
required, otherwise
.Nm
will not attempt to process the file with
.Xr cpp 1 .
.Pp
Every value is accessible anywhere in the page with
.Pa $KEY .
.Pp
There are some special keys that
.Nm
makes use of.  These are:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ic PAGE_LAYOUT
The to be used layout.  The layouts are usually located in the
.Pa _layouts
subdirectory.
.It Ic PAGE_PREPROCESSOR
Preprocess the page using the given preprocessor.
.Nm
will run the preprocessor like this:
.Pp
.Dl echo "content" | $PAGE_PREPROCESSOR
.It Ic PAGE_PREPROCESSOR_ARGS
Run the preprocessor with the given arguments.  It overrides
.Pa SITE_PREPROCESSOR_ARGS .
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "_config.sh__" -compact
.It Pa _config.sh
The configuration file for a site.  If this file is not in PWD,
.Nm
refuses to build the site.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh BUGS
Yes.
.Pp
